I (37m) have been married to wife for almost 4 years now, and our son will be 2 years old in September. Since his birth, he’s had issues with eczema, and issues with dairy as well. This has caused plenty of issues as we have to be absolutely careful with what ingredients we use not just in our foods, but what kinds of detergents we use in our clothes, shampoos and soaps, and even perfumes and lotions (my mom has to be extra careful around him when she comes over to babysit for him). 

My wife works in the medical field, but she practices in the more alternative medicines field as she believes that mainstream healthcare has gone awry in terms of treatment and care for patients as it’s just become a money making scheme by corporations (for reference, she is a licensed PT and she worked in an insurance based PT clinic for the first 7-8 years of her career and experienced insurance-based healthcare. She now runs her own practice that is focused on the patients’ needs first). Because of this, she’s very skeptical about mainstream healthcare and likes to choose and practice a more holistic approach for medical treatment. 

In an attempt to find alternative treatments for our son’s eczema and diary issues, she has turned to functional medicine. This hasn’t been an issue as the results seemed to have been working (ex. Not using petroleum based products on his skin for diaper rash, but a beeswax based product; eating a low histamine diet, etc.), however, things came to a head today when she told me that she is against him being further vaccinated as it just introduces more toxins into his body, and MMR can cause autism. I vehemently disagreed with her, and told her that not only do they protect him from catching certain diseases but it also helps the community as a whole by keeping the disease from spreading. Also, it does not cause autism. However, she just became only more emotional and angry about it, and says that she will not sign any paperwork to have him vaccinated, and she would even go to the lengths of having him exempt from mandatory vaccines to go into school. Our argument ended with no resolution. I don’t know what to do. Please help.